For operations personnel, there should only be
one way to affect the project WBS.
This is through creating TORs in iGATOR.
Do recall that in order to create the TOR in iGATOR,
the following information must be provided.
However, in addition to this information,
it should also be noted that in order to proceed with TOR creation,
a WBS must also be provided by the operations personnel.
As we can recall, when a TOR is created,
a corresponding Purchase Order is also created in PRISM.
As seen here, the WBS information from the TOR
is also carried over to the Purchase Order.
The Purchase Order will then automatically be integrated into PRISM.
It is important to understand that PRISM holds all the functions
pertaining to the Project Code.
Although for operations personnel, the two most important aspects
are COMMITMENTS and PROJECT COSTS.
Commitments are allocated obligations
to charge future project costs on the Project balance.
A simpler way to consider is that commitments do not affect
the project balance while project costs directly reduce the Project Balance.
Further still, all commitments will become project costs
as certain scenarios are triggered.
So going back, when a TOR has been created in iGATOR
and its corresponding PO has also been created in PRISM,
the WBS that was transferred automatically goes into PROJECT COMMITMENTS.
If we look back at iGATOR, it should be noted that
the newly created TOR is still in the “ISSUED” status.
What happens then when the TOR is set to “USED”?
When the TOR is set to “USED”, the commitments become Project Costs.
And these project costs are instantly deducted from the Project Balance.
At this point, the WBS is charged as an EXPENSE accounting entry.
For movement operations, these expense accounts
are normally Air Travel Costs, Staff Travel Costs, or Unrecoverable Costs.
Unrecoverable costs are mostly comprised of penalties
or non-refundable fares & taxes.